#summary How to compile HeeksCAD on Ubuntu

Download Ubuntu 8.04 and install it on your computer.


On the menu, go to System->Administration->"Synaptic Package Manager"


Follow the instructions at http://www.opennovation.org/ubuntu/ to enable the Open CASCADE packages


From synaptic package manager, I got...   build-essential,     11 items whose names begin with libopencascade,      3 items whose names begin with libgtkglext1, also these 4 items  libwxbase2.8-0, libwxbase2.8-dev, libwxgtk2.8-0, libwxgtk2.8-dev,   but it also marked other packages for installation, which I didn't look at their names


Get RapidSVN:

    To get RapidSVN; In Ubuntu's menu, go to Applications->"Add/Remove".

    Click "Programming" on the left and then tick "RapidSVN" on the right.


Run RapidSVN  (  menu Applications->Programming->RapidSVN )
On the RapidSVN menu, choose Repository->Chekcout
In the URL box put:
https://heekscad.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
In the "Destination Directory" box, put:
/home/dan/Desktop/HeeksCAD
( but replace "dan" with your username )
Click "OK". This should get all the source code files you need.


On the Ubuntu menu, click Applications->Accessories->Terminal.
The "Terminal" window appears, with some text like "dan@dan-desktop:~$" in it.
 

Type:
cd/Desktop/dan/HeeksCAD/src


Then type:
make


It will say something like:
dan@dan-desktop:~/Desktop/HeeksCAD/src$ make
gcc -c advprops.cpp -I "./" -I "/usr/include/opencascade" -I/usr/lib/wx/include/gtk2-unicode-release-2.8 -I/usr/include/wx-2.8 -D__WXGTK__ -DHEEKSCAD -o advprops.o
gcc -c BezierCurve.cpp -I "./" -I "/usr/include/opencascade" -I/usr/lib/wx/include/gtk2-unicode-release-2.8 -I/usr/include/wx-2.8 -D__WXGTK__ -DHEEKSCAD -o BezierCurve.o

as each of the files compile

and then after about 50-60 files have compiled it will say:
dan@dan-desktop:~/Desktop/HeeksCAD/src$ 

and then it will have made HeeksCAD


On the Ubuntu menu, go to Places->Desktop
Then double click on HeeksCAD folder to open it.
You will see HeeksCAD with a blue diamond icon.
Double click on the blue diamond icon to run HeeksCAD.


Let me know if something goes wrong. danheeks@googlemail.com