#summary How to install HeeksCAD on Ubuntu
= Installing on Ubuntu =

== distros ==
 * 8.04 hardy
 * 8.10 intrepid
 * 9.04 jaunty

 there are packages provided on http://yamato.hyte.de/packages/heeks/

 please make sure you download the right version of packages for your ubuntu release or you _will_ run into trouble with python

== dependencies ==
 * Opencascade
  * 8.04:
  packages for Opencascade can be gotten from http://www.opennovation.org/ubuntu/pool/main/o/opencascade/
   * get the libopencascade-foundation package that matches your system (i386, 64bit,etc)
   Opencascade can be installed using aptitude or apt. Quoting roh from #cam: "you will need to add
  {{{
    deb http://www.opennovation.org/ubuntu hardy main contrib non-free  
  }}}
    to your packagesource for the opencascade packages i linked against.
    for more information see http://www.opennovation.org/ubuntu/"
    Then use {{{ sudo apt-get -s install libopencascade-foundation-6.3.0 }}}
  * 8.10/9.04:
  just use libopencascade6.2 from the stock feeds. no need for the extra repo.

 * Python

== heekscad ==
 to install them download them and install heekscad first.
 * install with dpkg -i or just 'doubleclick' it.

== heekscnc ==
 if you want CNC/CAM support
 * download pycam libs  and heekscnc
 * install pycam and the libs with dpkg -i first, then heekscnc
 * start HeeksCAD via shell or via Applications->Graphics->HeeksCAD
 * File->Plugins new name=heekscnc filepath -> press ... select /usr/lib/heekscnc/libheekscnc.so.0.5.1 open OK
 * close HeeksCAD
 * start HeeksCAD again -> cnc installed, the machining menu and toolbar are available

== updating ==
 * make sure you update all the dependencies also. (just install all 6 packages)
 * when the toolbars look incomplete after new features got added, exit heeks, delete your personal preference files ( ~/.HeeksCAD and ~/.HeeksCNC ) and start it again. then add the plugins to the config again.