#summary Using HeeksCAD

You start in Select mode. http://code.google.com/p/heekscad/source/browse/trunk/bitmaps/select.png

= Selecting =

To select items, click on them with the left mouse button.

To select multiple items, drag a box with then left mouse button.

If you drag from left to right, only items completely within the box are selected.

If you drag from right to left, all items withing the box are selected.

If you select with Ctrl pressd, then items can be added or removed from the selection.


= Viewing =
To zoom the view, roll the middle wheel.

To shift the view, drag with the middle button pressed.

To rotate the view, press and hold Ctrl and drag with the middle button pressed.


= Solid Creation = 

== Sphere ==
Press the sphere button to create a sphere at x0 y0 z0, with a radius of 5mm

== Cube == 
Press the cube button to create a 10x10x10 cube.

== Cylinder == 
Press the cylinder button to create a cylinder based at x0 y0 z0, with a radius of 5mm and height of 10mm.

== Cone ==
Press the cone button to create a cone based at x0 y0 z0, with lower radius 10mm, upper radius 5mm, and height 20mm

== Extrusion ==
Draw some lines/arcs ( see below ), press the extrude button, enter the extrude height, in the Input window, and press the green tick.

== Editing Solids ==
Solids can be moved by dragging them, whilst in Select Mode.

When selected, gripper points appear. Dragging these perform other transformations, like scale, rotate, etc.

= 2D Geometry =

== Lines and arcs ==
Press the Line/Arc button to enter line/arc drawing mode.

Click for the start point of a line and then for end points of each line.

Press and hold the 'A' key to switch to tangential arc drawing mode.

== Circles ==
Press the circle button to enter circle drawing mode.

I think this is just for circle-through-three-points mode.

== Infinite Lines ==
Press the infinite lines button.

Click on two points to define a line.

= Coordinate Systems =
see the wiki page http://code.google.com/p/heekscad/wiki/CoordinateSystems

= Options =

Have a look at the "Options" window to see what choices there are.

These change depending what you are doing.

= Properties =

When one object is selected, you can see its properties in the "Properties" window.

You can edit them too, but the changes are only really made if you press the green tick button at the bottom of the "Properties" window.